In this lecture, we are going to wrap up our discussion of translations by loading them for blocks
in the Gutenberg Editor.
At the moment, the translations are loaded on the server.
They're not accessible to the front end.
Let me give an example.
At the moment, my science language has been set to French and the Gutenberg editor.
I'm going to search for the custom blocks we've developed in this course.
The names of the blocks are in English.
If we were to add these blocks to the page, the entire block settings would be in English too.
The translations do not get loaded for the Gutenberg editor.
We must manually load them for our blocks.
Navigate to the local translate page.
Let's update the French translations for our plugin.
I'm going to translate the name of the daily recipe block.
Once again, I'll be using Google Translate to help me translate the name.
After saving the translation.
Let's try loading the translation for our block in your editor.
Open the main plugin file.
At the bottom of the file at a hook called WP in Q Scripts.
A function already exists for this hook.
However, I think it would be a good idea to outsource the translations into a separate file for readability
at the end of the day.
It's up to you.
From my personal experience, the larger a plugin becomes, the harder it becomes to find code.
Organizing your logic will make it easier to search through your plugin.
The name of our function will be called Upload BLOCK Translations.
Afterward set the priority to 100.
Setting the priority is the most important step.
WordPress handles registering and queueing the script files for our block.
We never have to perform this step.
While convenient, it does pose a problem.
Our translations must be loaded after the files have been registered.
Otherwise, our translations may not get applied to our scripts.
Through we save the priority should be a high number behind the scenes.
WordPress uses this hook for registering our scripts by default.
The priority for this hook is ten.
Using a high number will cause our a function to run last.
As a result, our translations will be applied after the scripts have been registered and in queued.
Next open the load translations dot php file.
At the bottom of the file.
Define the upload block translations function.
Next, let's create an array of our blocks.
In the resource section of this lecture, I provide a link to a complete list of blocks.
Copy this array into your clipboard.
Lastly, head back to the editor paced the array into the function.
Once again, we will face another problem with adding translations to our blocks as we discussed before.
WordPress handles registering our scripts.
We do not have the handle names assigned by WordPress.
To save time, I have grabbed the handle names for you.
Regardless, I want to show you how I was able to grab these names in the browser.
Navigate to the Gutenberg Editor.
Open the elements panel from the Developer Tools.
Let's search for the script tag that loads any of our blocks.
For this example, I'm going to search for the fancy header scripts.
The ID attribute will contain the handle name of our script.
WordPress will set the handle name to the name of our block.
The handle name is a fixed with the word editor script JS.
However, the script JS portion of the name can be omitted.
The official handle name would be the following you to me plus fancy header editor.
You can search through the document for the other handles for your convenience.
I have created an array of handle names.
Let's head back to the editor.
The next step is to begin loading the translations.
For each block we have decided to store the handle names in an array to loop through them below the
array and a for each loop.
The condition will be the following blocks as block.
Each item in the array will be referenced as block.
Inside the loop run a function called WP set script translations.
This function will add translations for a specific script.
It has three arguments.
The first argument is the handle name for a script which is stored in our rain.
Let's pass in the block variable.
The second argument is the text domain.
Set the text domain to Udemy plus.
Lastly, we must provide a full path to the translation file.
WordPress will not accept the relative path like before.
Luckily we have a constant that points to our plugins directory.
Set this argument to the following value up plugin directory dot languages.
Let's test our code by refreshing the Gutenberg editor.
Next search for the daily recipe block.
The name of our block has been successfully translated.
Loading translations on the front end is as simple as calling a single function word.
WordPress will handle loading the translations into a browser that wraps up our discussion on translations.
In the next lecture, let's begin handling the installation of our plugin.